# Foundations of User Experience (UX) Design

[Draw Design](https://www.coursera.org/learn/foundations-user-experience-design).

## Aim

1. Define the field of UX and explain why it’s important for consumers and businesses.
2. Understand foundational concepts in UX design, such as user-centered design, the design process, accessibility, and equity-focused design.
3. Identify the factors that contribute to great user experience design.
4. Review common job responsibilities of entry-level UX designers and teams that they work with.
5. Explore job opportunities and career paths within the field of user experience.
6. Explain why design sprints are an important and useful part of a UX designer’s work.
7. Start to create an online portfolio where you can showcase your upcoming work.
8. Join and participate in online UX communities.

## Some type

1. UX design

- Interaction designer: how user interaction with a product.
- Visual designer: how app look
- Motion designer: how app move
- Graphic designers: Create visuals that tell a story or message. Focus on the physical appearance of a product.
- UX researchers: Conduct studies or interviews that help us learn how people use a product.
- UX writers: Think about how to make the language within a product clearer.
- Production designer: Make sure first and final designs match in the finished product materials and that the assets are ready to be handed off to the engineering team.
  - Assets: image, design specifications, font style, color, size, spacing.
- UX engineers: translate the design's intent into a functioning experience.

2. Responsibilities of entry-level UX designers

- Researching
- Wire framing
- Prototyping
- Creating information architecture
- Communicating effectively

3. How UX design work

- Visual designer: You'll start by identifying the problems. what are the issues going on within this product?. And why are we even looking product? And why are we even looking to improve or introduce this feature?
- Specialists designer: broad of responsibilities
- Generalists designer: Coding, Prototyping, Visual design, UX research, Writing. User research, branding, user flows, UX writing, visual design, prototyping, production design, information architecture, usability.
- T-shaped designers: Specializes in one kind of UX design and has a breath of knowledge in other areas.

Example: Cross-functional teams building an app for ordering food

- Product lead: Decides the scope of the project.
- UX researcher: Tries to understand user trust
- Interaction designer: Figures out the flow for ordering
- Visual designer: Thinks about how to make it easy for users to find allergen-free foods n the products.
- Engineer: Brings wire frames and prototypes to life.
- Program manager: Ensures clear and timely communication across the team.

## Week 2

- Define the user, end user, and user experience
- Goal of a good user experience
  - Is the product easy to use?
  - Is the product equitable?
  - Does the product delight the user?
  - Does it solve the user's problem?
- Prioritize the user
  - Understand
  - Specify
  - Design
  - Evaluate
- Iteration is a key: Doing something again, by building on previous versions and making tweaks
- Key frameworks in UX design

1. User centered design

2. Five elements of UX design: Steps a designer takes to turn an idea into a working product

- Strategy: Real define user need and business subjective
- Scope: What determine you building
- Structure: How to organize design
- Skeleton: how the layout
- Surface: How product look to the user

3. Design thinking: A way to create solutions that address a real user problem and are functional and affordable

- Empathize
- Define
- Ideate
- Prototype
- Test

## Universal design, inclusive design, and equity-focused design

- Universal design: The process of creating one product for users with the widest range of abilities and in the widest range of situations.
- Inclusive design: Solve for one, extend for many
- Accessibility: The design of products, devices, services, or environments for people with disabilities.
- Equity-focuses design: Designing for groups that have been historically underrpresented or ignore when building products.

- Equality: Providing the same amount of opportunity and support
- Equity: Providing different levels of opportunity and support for each person in order to achieve fair outcomes.
- The importance of accessibility
- Social model of disability: Defines a disability as being caused by the way society is organized or how products are designed rather than a person's ability or difference.

## Design sprints

- Five phases of design sprints
  - Understand
  - Ideate
  - Decide
  - Prototype
  - Test
